So let me summarize what we learned in this module.
We had a look at CSS variables, a nice CSS feature which allows you to define your own reusable variables,
which store values like unit, sizes, colors,
in this example here 1rem, in this module we saw it with hex codes, which you then can reuse in your
CSS code.
This of course is great because it allows you to define values once which you can then use whenever you
need them
and if you ever need to change that value, you change it in one place and it still affects the entire
page.
The disadvantage is that variables are only supported in modern browsers but especially in the future,
this is probably going to be a huge thing.
We also had a detailed look at cross-browser support.
We learned that browsers implement new features differently and with different speed
until there is a clear recommendation, then they typically all have it implemented in the same way
and we can use vendor prefixes to already take advantage of some cutting-edge features and also to support
older browsers which might implement a certain feature with that vendor prefix at least. There also
is the @supports query which you can use to check if a certain feature is supported in a browser and
you enter a full property value declaration there, not just the property you want to use.
This is very useful since it allows you to conditionally implement a certain feature and implement a
fallback which you overwrite with the help of the support query.
There also is the possibility of including polyfills;
these are Javascript packages which kind of emulate certain behaviors and make them available to browsers
which don't support the native CSS feature.
Now polyfills are not available for all CSS features and they're also not always the best choice,
sometimes implementing a fallback is better because polyfills come at a cost,
the users have to download them and Javascript has to be executed
and of course you're relying on the polyfill creator that there is no error in the polyfill,
that's also something to consider. Another thing you should consider is normalizing CSS defaults
across browsers.
Now this is really up to you
and there are packages like normalize.css, you learned about one important normalization
that you typically want to implement and that is resetting the box sizing to border box
but we can do that on our own.
In general, you should be aware that browsers may have different defaults though and therefore normalizing
them and starting from the same starting point might be something to consider.
We also had a look at CSS class names, you should name them with kebab case because CSS is case insensitive
and you should name them by feature and not by style,
so a class like title-blue,.
that's bad,
page-title
probably is better. In bigger projects, you also might face the issue of name collisions, so that you use
the same class name accidentally twice and you hence overwrite yourself and concepts or approaches like
BEM, Block Element Modifier class names can be a solution for that,
you learned what this is and we actually used that approach throughout the entire course.
And last but not least, there is the choice of writing vanilla CSS code versus picking a framework
like Bootstrap.
If you write all the styles from scratch, you've got full control but you also got the entire work and
responsibility,
if you use a component framework like Bootstrap, you can build webpages much faster but you might include
code which you don't really need,
hence you bloat the size of your webpage
and of course, you also have less control over the code. Utility frameworks like Tailwind CSS can be
a nice compromise since they give you some utilities you can use but don't do much else.
So there you still write your styles on your own,
you've just got some utility features to help you and that's it for this module.